# PAT(Advanced Level) 1030 Travel Plan (30分)

A traveler's map gives the distances between cities along the highways, together with the cost of each highway. Now you are supposed to write a program to help a traveler to decide the shortest path between his/her starting city and the destination. If such a shortest path is not unique, you are supposed to output the one with the minimum cost, which is guaranteed to be unique.

### Input Specification:

Each input file contains one test case. Each case starts with a line containing 4 positive integers *N*, *M*, *S*, and *D*, where *N* (≤500) is the number of cities (and hence the cities are numbered from 0 to *N*−1); *M* is the number of highways; *S* and *D* are the starting and the destination cities, respectively. Then *M* lines follow, each provides the information of a highway, in the format:

```
City1 City2 Distance Cost   
```

where the numbers are all integers no more than 500, and are separated by a space.

### Output Specification:

For each test case, print in one line the cities along the shortest path from the starting point to the destination, followed by the total distance and the total cost of the path. The numbers must be separated by a space and there must be no extra space at the end of output.

### Sample Input:

```in
4 5 0 3
0 1 1 20
1 3 2 30
0 3 4 10
0 2 2 20
2 3 1 20
```

### Sample Output:

```out
0 2 3 3 40
```

<br>

# Version1

Dijkstra算法有第二标尺的情况

针对第一种新增边权。以新增的边权代表花费为例，用cost\[u][v]表示u-->v的花费(题目给出)， 并增加一个数组c[], 令从起点到达顶点u的最少花费为c[u], 初始化时只有c[s]为0， 其余c[u]均为INF, 这样就可以在d[u]+G\[u][v]<d[v]时更新d[v]和c[v], 而当d[u]+G\[u][v]=d[v]且c[u]+cost\[u][v]<c[v]时更新c[v]

```cpp
#include<cstdio>
#include<vector>
using namespace std;

const int MAXV = 510;
const int INF = 0x3fffffff;
int n, m, s, dest;
int G[MAXV][MAXV];
int cost[MAXV][MAXV];
int d[MAXV];
int c[MAXV];
bool vis[MAXV] = {false};
int pre[MAXV];

void Dijkstra(int s) {
    fill(d, d + MAXV, INF);
    d[s] = 0;
    c[s] = 0;

    for(int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
        int u = -1, MIN = INF;
        for(int j = 0; j < n; j++) {
            if(vis[j] == false && d[j] < MIN) {
                u = j;
                MIN = d[j];
            }
        }

        if(u == -1) return;
        vis[u] = true;

        for(int v = 0; v < n; v++) {
            if(vis[v] == false && G[u][v] != INF) {
                if(d[u] + G[u][v] < d[v]) {
                    d[v] = d[u] + G[u][v];
                    c[v] = c[u] + cost[u][v];
                    pre[v] = u;
                } else if(d[u] + G[u][v] == d[v] && c[u] + cost[u][v] < c[v]) {
                    c[v] = c[u] + cost[u][v];
                    pre[v] = u;
                }
            }
        }
    }
}

void dfs(int s, int d) {
    if(s == d) {
        printf("%d ", s);
        return;
    } 
    dfs(s, pre[d]);
    printf("%d ", d);
}
int main() {
    scanf("%d%d%d%d", &n, &m, &s, &dest);
    for(int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
        for(int j = 0; j < n; j++) {
            G[i][j] = INF;
            cost[i][j] = INF;
        }
        pre[i] = i;
    }

    for(int i = 0; i < m; i++) {
        int start, end, dis, expens;
        scanf("%d%d%d%d", &start, &end, &dis, &expens);
        G[start][end] = G[end][start] = dis;
        cost[start][end] = cost[end][start] = expens;
    }
    Dijkstra(s);
    dfs(s, dest);
    printf("%d %d", d[dest], c[dest]);
}
```

